README.md, before:


# LinkedIn Profile Scraper

The LinkedIn Profile Scraper is a tool designed to extract information from the profile page of a given URL on LinkedIn. It provides an automated way to gather data from LinkedIn profiles, such as personal details, work experience, education, skills, and more.

## Features

Automatically extracts the information like, name, location, experience, education, skills of the profile page of the given URL and returns the output in JSON format.

## Dependencies
- **Python3**: Ensure that you have Python 3 installed on your system. You can download and install Python 3 from the official Python website: https://www.python.org.
- **pip**: pip is the package installer for Python. It is usually installed by default when you install Python. However, make sure you have pip installed and it is up to date. You can check the version of pip by running the following command:
  ```
  pip --version
  ```
- **Selenium**: You can install it using pip by running the following command
  ```
  pip install selenium
  ```
- **Chromium Drivers**: Make sure you have the appropriate Chromium drivers installed and configured. These drivers are required for Selenium to interact with the Chromium browser. Refer to the Selenium documentation for instructions on installing and setting up Chromium drivers based on your operating system.


## Installation

To install and use carrer-scraper, follow the steps given below:
- Fork the carrer-scraper repository by clicking the "Fork" button at the top right corner of the repository page. This will create a copy of the repository under your GitHub account.
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/{YOUR-USERNAME}/career-scraper   
  ```
- Navigate to the project directory: 
  ```
  cd carrer-scraper
  ```
- Install the necessary Python packages by running the following command:
  ```
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
- Navigate to the ``scraper.py``
  ```
  cd profile-scraper
  ```

## How to use?

To use LinkedIn Scraper, follow the steps given below:

**(Recommended)**

- Login to the LinkedIn account from the account you want to do scraping using Google Chrome and keep it signed in.
- **For ubuntu**, open the terminal and use the given command to start Google chrome in remote debugging mode
    ```
    google-chrome --remote-debugging-port=PORT_NUMBER --user-data-dir="~/.config/google-chrome
    ```
    Replace the ``PORT_NUMBER`` with a port number, you would like your chrome browser to run on.

- Now, you can run the scraper.py using the following command:
    ```
    python3 scraper.py --running True --portnumber PORT_NUMBER
    ```
    Replace ``PORT_NUMBER`` by the port number on which the google chrome is running

    This will use the signed in account to extract the data from the LinkedIn profiles

**Note:** This method has lower risks of failure.

**(Other)**
- Open config.ini file in a text editor, and add you preferable LinkedIn account's login credentials.
- Run the scraper.py using the following command:
    ```
    python3 scraper.py
    ```

## Contributions

Contributions to carrer-scraper are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository.

## Author

- [Abhishek Singh Kushwaha](https://github.com/ASK-03)

## Mentor

- [Kumar Shivendu](https://github.com/KShivendu)

Commit message:

completed the Linkedin-Profile-Scraper and also added some new features, added examples.config.ini, updated the README

README.md, after:


# LinkedIn Profile Scraper

The LinkedIn Profile Scraper is a tool designed to extract information from the profile page of a given URL on LinkedIn. It provides an automated way to gather data from LinkedIn profiles, such as personal details, work experience, education, skills, and more.

## Features

Automatically extracts the information like, name, location, experience, education, skills of the profile page of the given URL and returns the output in JSON format.

## Dependencies
- **Python3**: Ensure that you have Python 3 installed on your system. You can download and install Python 3 from the official Python website: https://www.python.org.
- **pip**: pip is the package installer for Python. It is usually installed by default when you install Python. However, make sure you have pip installed and it is up to date. You can check the version of pip by running the following command:
  ```
  pip --version
  ```
- **Selenium**: You can install it using pip by running the following command
  ```
  pip install selenium
  ```
  OR 
  ```
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
  After cloning the repository, to install all the requirements at once.
- **Chromium Drivers**: Make sure you have the appropriate Chromium drivers installed and configured. These drivers are required for Selenium to interact with the Chromium browser. Refer to the Selenium documentation for instructions on installing and setting up Chromium drivers based on your operating system.


## Installation

To install and use carrer-scraper, follow the steps given below:
- Fork the carrer-scraper repository by clicking the "Fork" button at the top right corner of the repository page. This will create a copy of the repository under your GitHub account.
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/{YOUR-USERNAME}/career-scraper   
  ```
- Navigate to the project directory: 
  ```
  cd carrer-scraper
  ```
- Install the necessary Python packages by running the following command:
  ```
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
- Navigate to the ``scraper.py``
  ```
  cd profile-scraper
  ```

## How to use?

To use LinkedIn Scraper, follow the steps given below:

**(Recommended)**

- Login to the LinkedIn account from the account you want to do scraping using Google Chrome and keep it signed in.
- **For ubuntu**, open the terminal and use the given command to start Google chrome in remote debugging mode
    ```
    google-chrome --remote-debugging-port=PORT_NUMBER --user-data-dir="~/.config/google-chrome
    ```
    Replace the ``PORT_NUMBER`` with a port number, you would like your chrome browser to run on.

- Now, you can run the scraper.py using the following command:
    ```
    python3 scraper.py --running True --portnumber PORT_NUMBER
    ```
    Replace ``PORT_NUMBER`` by the port number on which the google chrome is running

    This will use the signed in account to extract the data from the LinkedIn profiles

**Note:** This method has lower risks of failure.

**(Other)**
- Copy the ```example.config.ini``` file and name it as ``config.ini``.
- Open ``config.ini`` file in a text editor, and add you preferable LinkedIn account's login credentials.
- Run the scraper.py using the following command:
    ```
    python3 scraper.py
    ```

### Other Features
Some other helpful and cool features:
- **URL**: URL of the profile can be added easily in the command, that means no need to change any code :)
  ```
  python3 scraper.py --url URL_GOES_HERE
  ```
- **Save**: You get to decide that you want to save the output in a file or just output it in the terminal.
  ```
  python3 scrapper.py --save True
  ```
  Default is False, that means the output will be printed in the terminal.
  
  **NOTE:** It will create a new directory named **data** in the working directory, if --save True is chosen.
- **Debug**: Good news for programmers, it has a ``--debug`` option that you can turn on to get **DEBUG** level logging in log file named **app.log**. Default it gives **WARNING** level logging.
  ```
  python3 scraper.py --debug True
  ```
  **NOTE:** Logging for selenium webdriver is set to **CRITICAL**, if you are having problems with selenium, it can be easily turned to **WARNING** or **DEBUG** level.
## Contributions

Contributions to LinkedIn Profile Scraper are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository.

## Author

- [Abhishek Singh Kushwaha](https://github.com/ASK-03)

## Mentor

- [Kumar Shivendu](https://github.com/KShivendu)
